Manhunt underway for four inmates, including a murder suspect, who escaped a Georgia jail after the fence was cut, authorities say

Four inmates, including a man charged with murder, are on the run from authorities after escaping a central Georgia jail through a damaged second-floor window and getting through the perimeter fences, according to authorities.
The Bibb County Sheriff’s Office said the inmates escaped from the Bibb County Detention Center in Macon, about 84 miles southeast of Atlanta, around 3 a.m. Monday, the Bibb County Sheriff’s Office said.
The four climbed through a broken day room window and through a cut fence, according to a news release from the sheriff’s office.
Sheriff David Davis told reporters someone driving a blue Dodge Challenger in the parking lot near the fence appeared to aid the escape.
“(There is) some video footage of a vehicle that had been there earlier in the evening, that looked like they had been tampering with the fence, as well as bringing some items into the enclosed area of the fence that we believe were used by these inmates to escape,” Davis said at a news conference Monday.
One of the escapees is Joey Fournier, 52, who is accused of murder. The others are Marc Kerry Anderson, 24, accused of aggravated assault, and Chavis Demaryo Stokes, 29, accused of possession of a firearm and drug trafficking, the sheriff’s office said.

#
Elon Musk’s X is testing an annual fee for unverified accounts
After Elon Musk hinted last month that X could start charging all users, the company (formerly known as Twitter) announced a test of such a system.
X said in a post on Tuesday that it is testing a new program called “Not a Bot” in which new users in New Zealand and the Philippines will be required to sign up for a $1 annual subscription to post and interact with other posts.
The test will apply only to new web accounts, and the fee will be waived if users sign up for X’s $3.99 per month premium subscription service. New users in the testing region who opt out of premium and the annual subscription will only be able to read posts, watch videos and follow accounts — but not interact on the platform. Existing users will not be affected as part of the test.
The company said in the post that the program is meant to “bolster our already successful efforts to reduce spam, manipulation of our platform and bot activity, while balancing platform accessibility with the small fee amount,” adding that the fee is not meant to be a profit driver.
The test comes after Musk has encouraged users to sign up for X Premium as a way of reducing spam and scam activity on the platform, suggesting that requiring credit card payments helps verify a user’s identity and creates a higher barrier to entry for inauthentic accounts. As an added incentive, premium users receive a blue checkmark, have their posts boosted by the platform’s algorithm and are eligible to receive payments as part of X’s new ad revenue share program.
It also comes after Musk made a vague statement in a conversation with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu last month suggesting he could start charging all users. He said the company is “moving to have a small monthly payment for use of the X system” because it is “the only way I can think of to combat vast armies of bots.”
Experts, however, have said that many bad actors are more than willing and able to pay up for inauthentic accounts on the platform. In theory, a person could also pay to verify an account and then allow a computer to run it, thus effectively creating an automated (or “bot”) verified account.
X has come under fire in the past week over false and misleading claims that have been widely shared on the platform related to the Israel-Hamas war. The European Commission last week formally opened an investigation into X after a previous warning about disinformation and illegal content on its platform linked to the conflict.
X says it has removed “hundreds of Hamas-affiliated accounts,” taken down thousands of posts since the attack on Israel by Hamas and ramped up Community Notes, its program that allows users to fact check other users’ posts. “X is… addressing identified fake and manipulated content during this constantly evolving and shifting crisis,” X CEO Linda Yaccarino said in a letter to EU Commissioner Thiery Breton last week.
#
Lina Khan’s rise was heralded as an antitrust revolution. Now she has to pull it off
When the Federal Trade Commission and 17 states sued Amazon last month in a landmark antitrust case, Lina Khan, chair of the FTC, described it as a “cutting-edge” lawsuit that captures “state-of-the-art thinking” about modern monopolies in the tech industry.
The closely watched case may be the biggest of the 34-year-old’s career. It symbolizes the toughest regulatory challenge Amazon has faced in recent memory; for Khan, however, it is also the culmination of a years-long effort to challenge decades of received wisdom about how governments can protect competition, particularly in the tech sector.
If the Khan-spearheaded suit succeeds, it could mean huge changes for Amazon’s sprawling e-commerce business. But perhaps even more meaningfully, it could become an important step toward Khan’s larger goal: To broaden the scope of antitrust law and to encourage regulators and courts to apply it more creatively in shaping the entire global economy.
The Amazon suit isn’t Khan’s only effort to rein in Big Tech. Other ongoing suits have targeted industry giants including Microsoft and Meta, the latter on multiple fronts. It’s a huge gamble, spending gobs of taxpayer dollars and pitting small teams of government lawyers against the world’s most powerful and deep-pocketed corporations.
#
GM postpones expanding production of electric trucks
General Motors is putting off adding a second factory for production of its electric pickups until late 2025, the automaker announced Tuesday.
The Silverado EV is now being produced at GM’s Factory Zero Detroit-Hamtramck Assembly, where it is built alongside the GMC Hummer EV. The GMC Sierra EV is also set to be built there beginning next year.
But GM had planned to start producing the electric pickups at an additional Michigan factory, Orion Assembly just north of Detroit, as well. That ‘s where the Chevrolet Bolt EV and Bolt EUV are made now. Instead, when those electric vehicles go out of production at the end of this year, the factory will not shift quickly to making the trucks.
The decision had nothing to do with the ongoing United Auto Workers strike, GM said, but was to “manage capital” and to better align with “evolving EV demand.” The move involving the Orion Township factory raises broader questions about dynamics and demand in the EV market.

#
Hamas’ social media following has skyrocketed since its attack. America is powerless to stop it
Hamas is barred from most social media platforms. But its following has surged on popular messaging app Telegram since its October 7 terror attack on Israel.
One account belonging to the al-Qassam Brigades, the armed wing of the Hamas movement, has seen its following triple, and there has been a ten-fold increase in the number of views of videos and other content posted by the account.
Hamas is a designated foreign terror organization in the United States, and new internet laws in the European Union mean large social media platforms can face penalties for hosting terroristic content.
Meta and Google prohibit Hamas accounts, but Telegram, a company founded by a Russian-born entrepreneur which is now based in Dubai, has decided to allow the group to continue use its service.
X, formerly Twitter, says it also has a ban on Hamas and has removed “hundreds” of “Hamas-affiliated accounts.” Last week, however, the European Union announced it was opening an investigation into the company about disinformation and illegal content about the conflict on its platform.
#
DOJ and New Jersey US Attorney’s office open investigation into the City of Trenton and its police department focusing on use of excessive force
The Justice Department and the US Attorney’s Office for the District of New Jersey have opened an investigation into the Trenton Police Department and the City of Trenton that will focus on the use of excessive force and unlawful stops, searches and arrests, officials announced Tuesday.
The pattern-or-practice investigation was spurred after a thorough review of court records, statistics, media reports, body-worn camera footage and instances of what Assistant Attorney General Kristen Clarke called “problematic uses of force” for minor traffic violations.
“We reviewed information suggesting that officers may have unnecessarily escalated situations with Trenton residents, resulting in problematic uses of force including against people experiencing mental health crises,” Clarke said at a news conference.
“We’ve also reviewed information suggesting that officers may have routinely stopped pedestrians and vehicles to conduct warrantless searches and arrest without a sufficient legal basis. And in some cases, pedestrian and vehicle stops resulted in police department officers using force sometimes causing injuries to the individuals involved.”
US Attorney for the District of New Jersey Phillip Sellinger said they reviewed numerous reports of Trenton police officers using excessive force and violating constitutional rights.
Those instances included ones where excessive force was used on people who were complying with officers and where force was used as retaliation on bystanders who were filming interactions involving officers, Sellinger said.
“There are numerous reports that Trenton Police Department officers routinely conduct stops and searches without any justifiable reason. No warrant, no probable cause. Just stop and search, oftentimes of minority residents,” Sellinger said. “At times these problematic stops escalated into problematic arrests, in some instances, because the person being stopped simply wanted to know why.”
#
Wildfires are dealing a massive blow to US real estate and homeownership, congressional report finds

Climate change-fueled wildfires are costing the US economy between $394 billion to $893 billion annually, a new congressional report suggests – a shocking figure that is more than double what previous government reports have estimated.
The new report from the Joint Economic Committee, chaired by Democratic Sen. Martin Heinrich of New Mexico, examined a wide range of costs beyond immediate wildfire damage, including impacts to real estate value; premature deaths and health risks from wildfire smoke; threats to watersheds; and income loss. The report was shared first with CNN.
The range Heinrich’s committee found, which was adjusted for inflation, is significantly higher than a Trump administration report that examined fewer impacts and found the annual cost for wildfires was between $87.4 and $427.8 billion.
“The topline numbers are scary,” Heinrich told CNN. “Even if you live someplace where wildfire has never been an issue, these are numbers that are big enough to be systemically problematic for the economy.”
Heinrich said he and his staff wanted to look at the cascading economic costs from wildfires – including effects that continue long after a fire has been extinguished – and make a case for why lawmakers and officials should spend money proactively on resilience measures.
“There’s always been this frame from some policymakers that we can’t afford to do anything about climate change,” Heinrich said. “And the reality is, the real costs to our economy are to not do anything about it, and let this run away to an even worse outcome down the road.”
The diminished US real estate value is by far the largest portion of the total cost. The report estimates real estate has suffered anywhere from $67.5 to $337.5 billion a year due to wildfires. In comparison, the report estimates insurance payouts for wildfire damage at $14.8 billion per year, and annual premium increases around $1.6 billion.
But the figures are also uncertain because the impact on real estate markets is just starting to be understood, an outside expert said.
#
‘Anxiety and fear are high:’ US Palestinians, Muslims fear a return to post-9/11 Islamophobia
As the Israel-Hamas War rages and the crisis in Gaza deepens, Taher Herzallah said he has exchanged frantic messages on social media with his family members who are trapped in Gaza.
Their description of the situation is grim. He said they’ve told him they have no food, electricity, water or fuel.
“When I spoke to them … they were basically saying, ‘We think this is it, we will not survive this one,’” he said. “You can only imagine what that feels like for Palestinian Americans who are getting these stories from their families right now.”
Herzallah said his concerns for his family thousands of miles away have also been compounded by a growing fear for the safety of his wife and children here in the US, as reports of attacks against people perceived to be Muslim or Palestinian surface across the country.
On Monday, family and faith leaders held a funeral for Wadea Al Fayoume, a 6-year-old Palestinian-American boy who was stabbed to death in his Chicago-area apartment Saturday in what the police say is an Islamophobic hate crime. Outside of Al Fayoume’s funeral at the Mosque Foundation in Bridgeview, Illinois, grief was tinged with anger.
Ahmed Rehab, executive director of the Council on American Islamic Relations Chicago chapter, said he views the attack against Al Fayoume and his mother, who is still hospitalized in serious condition, as an attack on all Muslims.
“It is our worst nightmare come true. It is something we tried to warn against, creating an atmosphere of dehumanization that puts our community at risk, creates sitting ducks,” he said.
“When this individual said, ‘You Muslims must die,’ this was a message not to the boy and the mother. This was to all of us. We were all stabbed that day.”
#
Aurora police officer’s actions had ‘cataclysmic effect’ on Elijah McClain, prosecutor says as manslaughter trial opens
Aurora, Colorado, police officer Nathan Woodyard’s actions on the day Elijah McClain was restrained and injected with ketamine in 2019 had a “cataclysmic effect” on the young man, a prosecutor said Tuesday during opening statements in the officer’s manslaughter trial.
Nathan Woodyard, 34, has pleaded not guilty to reckless manslaughter and a lesser included charge of criminally negligent homicide. Woodyard is the third officer tried in connection with the death.
Woodyard and fellow officers “did not listen” when McClain “said ‘I can’t breathe,’ they did not listen to him when he started to drown in his own vomit, and they certainly didn’t pay attention as he got quieter and quieter and quieter,” prosecutor Ann Joyce told jurors Tuesday.
Woodyard placed McClain in a carotid hold – a move in which an officer uses their biceps and forearm to cut off blood flow to a subject’s brain – that left McClain unconscious, according to an indictment.
Woodyard then released the hold, and once McClain regained consciousness, he and other officers restrained him on the ground despite his repeated pleas of “I can’t breathe,” according to the indictment.
Woodyard is currently suspended without pay from the Aurora Police Department.
“Mr. Woodyard did not follow his training and it had a cataclysmic effect on Mr. McClain,” Joyce told the jury.
Defense attorney Megan Downing countered that nothing Woodyard did – not even the carotid hold – caused McClain’s death.
#
Palestinian-American boy fatally stabbed near Chicago had celebrated his 6th birthday just 8 days earlier
In the photograph that introduced millions of people to Wadea Al-Fayoume for the first time, the kindergartener is seen celebrating his sixth birthday at his home near Chicago.
With one hand on a blue “Happy Birthday” hat on his head, Wadea stands in the warm light of the home, surrounded by presents. On a shelf behind him sits a wooden sign proclaiming “home.” A birthday video is seen playing on the living room TV.
Inside that same home – and just eight days after that photo was snapped – Wadea was stabbed 26 times by his family’s landlord because he was Muslim, authorities have said. The “ongoing Middle Eastern conflict involving Hamas and the Israelis” was why the boy and his mother – who also suffered more than a dozen stab wounds but survived – were targeted, according to the Will County Sheriff’s Office.

The 71-year-old suspect has been charged with murder and hate crimes, among other charges, and was ordered to be held without bond during a court appearance Monday.
But Wadea knew nothing about the reasons that ultimately led to his brutal killing on Saturday, community advocates said this week.
Instead, they described him as a warm, kind child who focused on enjoying life with his friends and playing outside, and who loved his parents and family deeply.
In his final moments, Wadea offered words of comfort to his mother, a family member revealed Monday.
“His last words to his mom: ‘Mom, I’m fine,” Wadea’s uncle, Yousef Hannon, told reporters. “You know what, he is fine. He is in a better place.”


#
The marine laboratory working to help reef sharks and restore their coral habitats
Overfishing and climate change are endangering reef sharks and coral populations. Scientists at the Mote Marine Laboratory are trying to help restore coral reefs through the use of land and offshore coral nurseries.


#
Climate group will spend $80 million to tout Biden’s environmental record
Advocacy group Climate Power is committing $80 million in advertising to call attention to President Joe Biden’s climate and environment agenda ahead of the 2024 election, the group announced Monday.
The ad campaign broadly aims to inform voters about the president’s wide-ranging climate and clean energy agenda. As he took office, Biden set ambitious targets to cut the country’s planet-warming emissions. He also presided over the passage of the Inflation Reduction Act, the largest legislative climate investment in US history.
Yet even as Biden has directed his administration to prioritize climate change and clean energy, polling this summer shows his message isn’t getting through to voters.
A July Washington Post/University of Maryland poll found that less than a third of Americans polled knew a great deal about the IRA, compared to 71% who had heard a little or nothing about it. But the same poll found respondents broadly supportive of the initiatives in the bill, including tax subsidies to defray the cost of purchasing an electric vehicle, solar panels, or energy efficient heating and cooling systems.
The same poll found 57% of Americans disapproved of how Biden has handled the issue of climate change.
“People overwhelmingly support what President Biden has done to combat climate change — but only if they hear about it,” said Lori Lodes, executive director of Climate Power. “Our campaign plans to bridge the information gap around the clean energy plan by meeting Americans where they are and telling the story of our climate progress.”
Climate Power is launching digital and television ads and plans to continue spending on both platforms heading into 2024, according to a fact sheet provided by the group. It is launching a campaign to mobilize Latino voters on the issue and focusing on digital campaigns to reach young voters on social media. The group is also organizing in-person events in key battleground states including Arizona, Georgia and Michigan.
Climate Power has an ad campaign partnership with Future Forward, whose nonprofit arm helped pay for some of its spots so far this year.
#
US recognizes Cook Islands and Niue as independent states
The US is formally establishing diplomatic relations with a pair of Pacific Island nations Monday, recognizing the Cook Islands and Niue for the first time.
The recognition comes as President Joe Biden seeks to strengthen relationships in the Indo-Pacific region as a counter to China’s rising influence, something that’s been a major priority since he took office. The administration has worked to deepen its engagement with Pacific Island nations, and hosted the Pacific Island Forum leaders Monday at the White House.
Biden said in a pair of statements that he was “proud” to recognize Cook Islands and Niue as sovereign, independent states.
Niue, Biden said, “plays a critical and constructive role in the Pacific, including supporting the region’s sustainable development, security, and marine protection and ocean conservation.”
He continued, “Today’s announcement will enable us to deepen our cooperation with Niue on these challenges and more – from tackling the climate crisis, to protecting maritime borders and marine resources, to building sustainable economic growth, to maintaining a free and open Indo-Pacific region.”
And the announcement with the Cook Islands, Biden said, “will enable us to expand the scope of this enduring partnership as we seek to tackle the challenges that matter most to our peoples’ lives – from countering illegal, unreported, and unregulated fishing, to combating climate change, to building inclusive economic growth, to advancing a free and open Indo-Pacific region, and beyond.”

#
Trump and Biden’s Michigan visits will present competing strategies for winning union voters
When United Auto Workers went on strike against General Motors four years ago, Joe Biden and Donald Trump took very different approaches.
Trump, the incumbent Republican president who’d clashed with unions over his labor policies, told reporters at the time he had a good relationship with autoworkers and he hoped the two sides would reach a deal quickly. Biden was one of several Democratic presidential candidates visiting striking workers, criticizing GM for failing to share rising profits with workers.
“We didn’t bail out GM, UAW bailed out GM,” Biden, wearing a red UAW shirt, told striking workers at a Kansas plant in September 2019 in reference to the 2009 auto bailouts. “You gave up more than anybody. That’s why GM made it.”
The UAW eventually endorsed Biden in April 2020. This time, the UAW endorsement is still Biden’s to lose. But as he and Trump – the GOP front-runner in 2024 – make dueling visits to the heart of the UAW strike this week, they’ll face different challenges in their new roles as incumbent and challenger.

#
A Mars Express satellite captures amazing video imaging of 'Labyrinth of Night'
Using High Resolution Stereo Cameras, Mars Express satellites have revealed imaging of Noctis Labyrinthus, which they claim is 3 times deeper than the Grand Canyon.

#
Rare compound detected in the ‘Mona Lisa’ reveals a new secret, study says

Leonardo da Vinci was a painter, inventor and anatomist, to name just a few of his talents — and now, you can add innovative chemist to the polymath’s many gifts. It turns out the master artist was more experimental with his renowned “Mona Lisa” than previously thought — and was likely the creator of a technique seen in works created a century later, a new study suggests.
By using X-ray diffraction and infrared spectroscopy, a team of scientists in France and Britain has detected a rare mineral compound within the iconic piece. The finding provides fresh insight into how the work from the early 1500s was painted, according to the study recently published in the Journal of the American Chemical Society.
Along with lead white pigment and oil, the compound — known as plumbonacrite — was found in the base layer of the paint. A study published in 2019 had identified the mineral in several 17th-century works by Rembrandt, but researchers had not come across it in works from the Italian Renaissance until the new analysis.

Plumbonacrite forms when lead oxides combine with oil. Mixing these two substances on a palette is a technique that later artists like Rembrandt used to help the paint dry, according to the study. Detecting the rare compound in the “Mona Lisa” suggested that Leonardo could have been the original precursor of this approach, said Gilles Wallez, an author of the latest study and a professor at Sorbonne University in Paris who also was a coauthor on the 2019 report.
“Everything which comes from Leonardo is very interesting, because he was an artist, of course, but he was also a chemist, a physicist — he had lots of ideas, and he was an experimenter … attempting to improve the knowledge of his time,” Wallez said.
#
Gene-edited pig kidney keeps monkey alive for 2 years, trial finds, a step toward longer-lasting human transplants
About 13 people die every day while waiting for a kidney transplant because of a lack of organ donors, but some scientists think pigs could be the answer. In a new trial that researchers say is the largest of its kind, researchers transplanted kidneys from genetically modified pigs into monkeys that lived for what’s considered a record amount of time.
These scientists hope their proof-of-concept study, published in the journal Nature this week, could soon lead to human trials.
In the United States, more than 90,000 people are on a waiting list for a new kidney because one or both of theirs have failed. Globally, about 8% to 16% of people have kidney problems, and it is a leading cause of death, killing more than 250,000 people in 2019, studies show. Dialysis can help remove waste and extra fluids in the blood, but it does only 10% to 15% of the work of a healthy kidney, and people on dialysis face a 50% chance of dying within five years of going on the treatment, studies show.
#
A mother shielding her son, a 26-year-old attending a music festival and 2 brothers are among the Americans killed in Israel
A mother who shielded her son from gunfire, a “pro-peace” academic, young people at a musical festival and a pair of brothers are among at least 31 Americans killed in the warfare between Israel and Hamas, family members and officials say.
“Mom and Dad, they sacrificed their lives to save me,” 16-year-old Israeli American Rotem Matias told CNN of two of the victims killed after the Gaza-based militant group launched a devastating attack on Israel early October 7, leaving at least 1,400 dead.

The tally of Americans slain has reached 31, President Joe Biden said Wednesday during a bilateral meeting with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu in Tel Aviv. Thirteen Americans had been unaccounted for on Sunday, a US State Department spokesperson said at that time.
In response to the attacks, Israel has pounded Gaza with airstrikes. At least 3,000 people have been killed in Gaza, including at least 447 children, according to the Palestinian Health Ministry. More than 12,500 others have been wounded.
It’s unclear whether any US citizens are among those killed or injured in Gaza, and medical care has been hampered by Israel cutting power to Gaza.
As families in the US wait for information about their missing loved ones, others are confronted with the sudden loss of siblings, children or parents.

#
Court documents detail how woman accused of killing elite cyclist allegedly tried to escape custody during a medical appointment

Authorities believe Kaitlin Armstrong – the woman accused of killing a professional cyclist in Texas last year – may have been preparing for months before she tried to escape custody during a doctor’s appointment last week, court documents show.
An investigation of her attempted escape revealed Armstrong had been “exercising vigorously” for months before she broke free from corrections officers while being escorted from a medical appointment last Wednesday, leading them on a foot chase for about a mile before she was recaptured, according to an affidavit.

She had also complained of an injury that would mean she could get the medical appointment outside her jail and secured a medical request that would prevent her legs from being restrained, the affidavit said.
#
Floods, storms and fires displaced 20,000 children every day over past six years, UNICEF report finds
More than 43 million children have been driven from their homes by floods, storms, droughts and wildfires over the six years between 2016 and 2021, according to new data from UNICEF. That works out to 20,000 children displaced every single day due to extreme weather fueled by climate change.
The researchers found that floods and storms caused 95% of all child displacements recorded, with the rest due to drought and wildfires.
“It is terrifying for any child when a ferocious wildfire, storm or flood barrels into their community,” said UNICEF executive director Catherine Russell, in a statement.
The report is the first of its kind, according to UNICEF. “Until now, children displaced by weather-related events have been statistically invisible,” the organization said in a statement.
East Asia and the Pacific have been particularly affected. In 2020, Cyclone Amphan led to 1.5 million child displacements across India, Bangladesh, Myanmar and Bhutan. In 2021, Typhoon Rai caused 1.5 million child displacements across the Philippines, Palau and Vietnam.
By overall numbers of displacements, three countries dominated: the Philippines, India and China, where a total of 23 million children were forced from their homes and schools across the six-year period.
The location and geography of these countries make them prone to floods and storms, which are set to worsen as the climate crisis intensifies.
However, the report noted that all three countries implement preemptive evacuation plans, meaning children can be moved before a disaster hits, which may account for the higher numbers of displacements.

#
China is celebrating a decade of the Belt and Road Initiative. What is it about?

China on Tuesday kicked off a summit marking the 10th anniversary of its Belt and Road Initiative – an ambitious yet controversial undertaking to boost connectivity and trade across the world with Chinese money and know-how in infrastructure development.
World leaders including Russia’s Vladimir Putin are gathering in Beijing for the high-profile event, which takes place in the shadow of a spiraling war between Israel and Hamas.
Since its launch by Chinese leader Xi Jinping in 2013, the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) has poured hundreds of billions of dollars to power the construction of bridges, ports, highways, power plants and telecoms projects across Asia, Latin America, Africa and parts of Europe.
Hailed by Xi as a “project of the century,” the BRI has emerged as a glaring symbol of China’s rise as a global power. But it has also been viewed with growing skepticism, especially in Western capitals where governments are wary of Beijing’s global ambitions.
The massive undertaking has been plagued by criticism. Beijing has been accused of straddling developing countries with crippling debt, while its sprawling projects have often faced concerns – and even protests – over their environmental costs, labor violations and corruption scandals.
A decade on, Xi’s global building spree is at a crossroads. Chinese investment in BRI projects has tapered off as the world’s second-biggest economy slows. Recipient countries are struggling more than ever to repay their debts amid global economic headwinds from the Covid-19 pandemic and the war in Ukraine.
Meanwhile, the United States, which sees the BRI as a a tool for Beijing to extend its global influence at the expense of American power, has proposed its own investment program to boost global infrastructure development.
In the Chinese capital, security has been tightened, with road closures and a heavy police presence as leaders and delegations from around the world arrived.
#
The Midwest US could be a hotspot for deadly ‘moist heat stress’ as global temperatures climb

Large parts of the world, including China and the Midwest US, are on track to become too hot for humans to handle as accelerating global temperatures expose billions to heat and humidity so extreme their bodies will no longer be able to cope, according to a new study.
Researchers used temperature and humidity data along with climate models to analyze humanity’s exposure to potentially lethal heat as the world warms, looking at a range of temperature increases from 1.5 degrees Celsius to 4 degrees Celsius above pre-industrial levels.
They found that above 2 degrees Celsius of warming, a significant portion of the world’s population will be vulnerable to “moist heat stress” with devastating consequences for human health, according to the study published Monday in the journal Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences. The world has already warmed around 1.2 degrees Celsius.
“Moist heat stress is a particularly challenging problem, because it affects the human body directly, and causes morbidity and mortality,” said Matthew Huber, co-author of the study and a professor of Earth’s atmospheric and planetary sciences at Purdue University.

When levels of heat and humidity are high, sweat evaporates much more slowly than usual meaning its cooling effect is lost and the body can become unable to regulate its temperature. This can lead to heat exhaustion and heat stroke, which can cause heart attacks and organ failure. The old, the very young and those with pre-existing health conditions are most vulnerable to heat illness.
Temperatures that surpass human tolerance have been breached only a few times in human history, and for a few hours at a time in the Middle East and Southeast Asia, according to the report.
But as temperatures continue to rise, many more will be exposed and for much longer periods, the study found.
#
OPEC Secretary General says the transition to green energy is moving too fast
OPEC Secretary General Haitham Al Ghais says countries are over-promising and under-delivering on their green pledges as the world considers moving away from fossil fuels

#
Zahmire Lopez, an 8-year-old with dance moves and rap skills, killed by gun violence in his Jersey home
Delivered in an excited pre-pubescent voice, this untitled rap song is a lasting memory of the joy and bravado 8-year-old Zahmire Lopez always brought to the world.
“I was like, ‘Wow!’ I was shocked when I heard it,” his mother, Leontine Niangara, told CNN. “It’s like a real song. I think it’s at least two minutes long. So I’m like, OK!”
There won’t be another one like it. Zahmire, or “Zah,” was shot and killed at his home in Newark, New Jersey, in May.
Zahmire is one of more than 1,300 children and teens in the US killed by gunfire so far in 2023, according to the Gun Violence Archive. Firearms became the No. 1 killer of children and teens in America in 2020, surpassing motor vehicle accidents, which had long been the leading cause of death among America’s youth.
“It’s very hard,” Niangara said. “It’s not an hour goes by that I don’t just think about him. It’s hard. Some say when time goes by it gets easier but it doesn’t get easier.”
#
New York City to limit migrant family shelter stays to 60 days, mayor announces
Migrant families staying in New York City shelters will be required to leave those facilities after 60 days and reapply for placement, according to a new rule announced by Mayor Eric Adams on Monday.
The move is the administration’s most significant attempt to date aiming to reduce resources dedicated to more than 64,000 migrants currently in the city’s shelter system.
“As the city still seeks further and timely support from federal and state partners, it will begin providing 60 days’ notice to families with children seeking asylum to find alternative housing along with intensified casework services to help them explore other housing options and take the next steps in their journeys,” the administration said in a statement.
A spokesperson for Adams told CNN the new rule will take effect next week and notices would be given out on a “rolling basis” starting with families who have been in the system the longest.
More than 126,000 migrants have arrived in New York City since last spring and the city estimates there are 64,100 migrants currently in the shelter system. A spokesperson for the mayor did not respond when asked how many of the more than 64,000 people currently in the system are families with children.
#
US escalates tech battle by cutting China off from AI chips
The Biden administration is reducing the types of semiconductors that American companies will be able to sell to China, citing the desire to close loopholes in existing regulations announced last year.
On Tuesday, the US Commerce Department unveiled new rules that further tighten a sweeping set of export controls first introduced in October 2022.
The updated rules “will increase effectiveness of our controls and further shut off pathways to evade our restrictions,” US Commerce Secretary Gina Raimondo said in a statement. “We will keep working to protect our national security by restricting access to critical technologies, vigilantly enforcing our rules, while minimizing any unintended impact on trade flows.”
Advanced artificial intelligence chips, such as Nvidia’s H800 and A800 products, will be affected, according to a regulatory filing from the US company.
The regulations also expand export curbs beyond mainland China and Macao to 21 other countries with which the United States maintains an arms embargo, including Iran and Russia.
The measures, which have affected the shares of major American chipmakers, are set to take effect in 30 days.
The original rules had sought to hamper China’s ability to procure advanced computing chips and manufacture advanced weapons systems. Since then, senior administration officials have suggested they needed to be adjusted due to technological developments.

#
Homebuilding bounced back in September
US homebuilding bounced back in September, after dropping in August to the lowest levels since 2020 as mortgage rates climbed.
Housing starts, a measure of new home construction, jumped 7% above the revised August estimate. Starts rose to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 1.358 million last month, falling short of expectations of 1.38 million, according to data released Wednesday by the Census Bureau.
The number of units started was 7.2% lower than a year ago.
Building permits dropped in September, falling 4.4% from August’s revised number to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 1.473 million.
Permits were 7.2% lower than a year ago.
“September numbers were a mixed bag, with starts up and permits down, but both remain low by historical standards, suppressed by high mortgage rates,” said Robert Frick, corporate economist with Navy Federal Credit Union.
“Builders continue constructing smaller homes using less land, and offering incentives, but to build our way out of the housing shortage we’ll need mortgage rates well below current levels,” he said.
Single‐family housing starts, which account for most of the construction, rose 3.2% in September from the revised August figure, at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 963,000.
In September, single-family starts fell in the Northeast by 19%, but posted month-to-month gains in other regions of the country.
“Slower construction activity in the Northeast could reflect cooler demand as well as challenges builders face in finding availability lots,” said Lisa Sturtevant, chief economist at Bright MLS.
Homebuilders are becoming increasingly anxious about persistently high mortgage rates and cooling demand, she said.
“To keep buyers interested, many builders have been offering upgrades or buying down mortgage rates,” she said. “Rising home prices coupled with mortgage rates approaching 8% will mean there will be fewer buyers in the market to entice later this year.”
#
US has provided Ukraine long-range ATACMS missiles, sources say
The US secretly provided Ukraine with long-range ATACMS missiles in recent days, according to multiple US officials, providing Ukraine with a significant new capability that could allow its forces to hit new Russian targets that were previously out of reach.
The confirmation came on Tuesday after images of the missiles’ submunitions inside Ukraine began circulating on social media.
US officials indicated to CNN on Tuesday that Ukraine has already used the ATACMS, some variants of which have a maximum range of approximately 186 miles, to attack Russia’s Berdyansk and Luhansk airfields in eastern Ukraine. The Ukrainian military tweeted on Tuesday that the attack destroyed several Russian helicopters, an ammunition depot and an air defense launcher, but did not specify whether they used ATACMS to do it.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky acknowledged the ATACMS in his daily address and expressed his gratitude for the agreements with the US being implemented.
“Today, I am especially grateful to the United States. Our agreements with President Biden are being implemented. They are being implemented very accurately – the ATACMS have proven themselves,” Zelensky said.
National Security Council spokesperson Adrienne Watson confirmed in a statement on Tuesday that “The United States recently provided Ukraine with a type of ATACMS capable of ranging out to 165 km as part of our ongoing support for the people of Ukraine as they defend their territory against Russia’s brutal invasion. We believe this will provide a significant boost to Ukraine’s battlefield capabilities without risking our military readiness.”
A US official said the version of the missiles the US provided to Ukraine, which carry cluster munitions instead of unitary warheads, are not in the the stockpiles the Pentagon would draw from if the US became directly involved in a war, so there were no concerns that transferring them would hinder US military readiness. National security adviser Jake Sullivan first asked the NSC in mid-July, as Ukraine’s counteroffensive appeared to be moving more slowly than anticipated, to work with the Pentagon to provide an updated memo on ATACMS options that assessed the potential impacts on US military readiness, the official said.

#
Orlando nurse carried out of floodwaters by news reporter
Nurse Tonya McCullough was on her way to work for an overnight shift at a Downtown Orlando hospital when her car got stuck in the floodwaters as Hurricane Ian passed through early Thursday morning.
WESH reporter Tony Atkins and his camera operator who were nearby jumped into action, picking up McCullough, carrying her from the car and helping her escape.
“The fact that he was there — I know that was God because it was dark. There were no police cars or ambulances or fire trucks. There was no one else around to help me at that moment and he was available immediately,” McCullough told CNN's Erin Burnett on Friday night.
After the rescue, McCullough still worked a 16-hour shift and was able to meet up with Atkins on Friday morning.
#
Thieves in Florida use tractor trailers to steal more than $1.6 million in alcohol from US distributor
An investigation is underway in Florida after burglars used tractor trailers to steal more than $1.6 million worth of alcohol from a distribution company that carries brands including Jose Cuervo and Malibu.
The theft began during the early morning hours on July 8 at Republic National Distributing Company, located in Hillsborough County south of Tampa, according to a newly unsealed search warrant obtained by CNN on October 5.
Between between 4:10 a.m. and 9:45 a.m., the thieves removed 4,277 cases of liquor from the company that also distributes alcohol from Franzia Wines and Sutter Home Winery, according to the search warrant, which was issued for an Apple iPhone 14 Pro Max.
Authorities believe there is probable cause that the phone “contains specific information, technical data and evidence” showing that a burglary and grand theft took place, according to the warrant.
The thieves, referred to in the document as “unknown suspects,” also removed digital video recorders used by the alcohol distributor for video surveillance purposes, the warrant stated.
Located in Gibsonton, Florida, RNDC is one of the nation’s largest wine and spirits distributors with 14,000 employees in 38 states and Washington, D.C., according to the company’s website.

#
Arkansas orders Chinese-owned seed producer Syngenta to sell US farmland

Arkansas ordered Syngenta to sell 160 acres (65 hectares) of farmland in the U.S. state within two years on Tuesday because the company is Chinese-owned, drawing a sharp rebuke from the global seeds producer.
U.S. farm groups and lawmakers are increasingly scrutinizing foreign land ownership due to concerns about national security.
“This is about where your loyalties lie,” Arkansas Governor Sarah Huckabee Sanders said at a news conference.
Syngenta said it was disappointed and called the decision “a shortsighted action” that will hurt Arkansas farmers. The company owns about 1,500 acres (610 hectares) of U.S. agricultural land for research, development and regulatory trials on products used by U.S. farmers, spokesman Saswato Das said.
“Our people in Arkansas are Americans led by Americans who care deeply about serving Arkansas farmers,” Das said. The company has owned the site in Craighead County for 35 years, he added.
The order is Arkansas’ first enforcement action under a state law passed this year that prohibits certain foreign parties from acquiring or holding land. China is among the prohibited parties because it is subject to U.S. arms export controls known as the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR), Arkansas Attorney General Tim Griffin said.
A rival of U.S. company Corteva (CTVA.N) and German firms BASF (BASFn.DE) and Bayer (BAYGn.DE), Swiss agrichemicals and seeds group Syngenta was bought for $43 billion by ChemChina in 2017 and folded into Sinochem Holdings Corp in 2021. ChemChina is a “state-owned enterprise” in China, Griffin said.
Syngenta is now pursuing an initial public offering in Shanghai.
If Syngenta fails to sell its land, owned by subsidiary Northrup King Seed Co, Griffin can “force them to get out of our state” with legal action, Huckabee Sanders said. The state also fined Syngenta $280,000 for failure to report foreign ownership in a timely manner.
In a form filed with the U.S. Department of Agriculture about the property last year, Syngenta said: “Ultimately, the foreign person that holds indirectly a significant interest in the person owning the land is from China,” according to a copy of the document posted by Griffin’s office.
But no one from China has ever directed Syngenta executives to buy, lease or otherwise engage in U.S. land acquisitions, Das said. Since Syngenta had Chinese ownership, the company has purchased an additional 200 agricultural acres (80 hectares), he said.
“All Syngenta land holdings have been examined by the U.S. government, through two administrations, as Syngenta was transitioning to ChemChina ownership,” Das said.
Foreign persons held an interest in approximately 40 million acres (16.2 million hectares) of U.S. agricultural land as of Dec. 31, 2021, the USDA said. That was 3.1% of all privately held agricultural land and 1.8% of all land. China had less than 1% of foreign-held land, while Canadian investors had 31%.

#
Police in Florida arrest a 19-year-old after they say they found written shooting spree threats during a routine traffic stop
Authorities in South Florida say they arrested a 19-year-old this week after they say they found written threats for a shooting spree and other attacks in his vehicle during a routine traffic stop.
A Jupiter, Florida, police officer pulled over Henry Horton IV on September 18 for a headlight that was out on the white pickup truck he was driving, according to a probable cause affidavit from the Palm Beach County Sheriff’s Office.
During a search of Horton’s vehicle, the officer found multiple handwritten notes with a plan to purchase firearms and “kill everyone at OHS (Okeechobee High School) with my guns,” the probable cause affidavit says.
Horton graduated from the high school, located in Okeechobee County, in May 2022.
Horton told the officer he had previous mental health issues and had “been having multiple thoughts about mass homicide and want(ing) to execute them once he turned 22 years old,” according to the affidavit.
He had plans to kill 15 people from the high school on January 2, 2026, his 22nd birthday, according to the affidavit.
Horton said while living in Virginia, he voluntarily admitted himself to a medical facility for a mental health evaluation due to having similar thoughts, the affidavit stated.
Authorities asked him where he was heading before getting stopped. Horton said he was traveling to Miami to look at a church, where he told investigators he planned to kill around 10 people following his planned 2026 attack at his former school, according to the affidavit.
Horton was transported to a hospital to receive a mental health evaluation under the Florida Mental Health Act, commonly known as the Baker Act, which allows people to be involuntarily detained and subject to an examination for up to 72 hours during a mental health crisis.
The Okeechobee County School District is working with the sheriff’s office and state attorney’s office on this case, superintendent Ken Kenworthy told CNN in a written statement.
“The district will pursue every recourse within its power to protect all school campuses and property where staff and students reside,” Kenworthy said.

#
A DeLorean with only 977 miles on it was unearthed in a Wisconsin barn
“Back to the Future” has been a family favorite film franchise for decades, so much so that the car used for the time machine can resell for up to six figures.
Now, imagine finding that same model in the back of a Wisconsin barn, with original parts and less than 1,000 miles, partially sunk into the dirt like treasure. Great Scott!
That’s exactly what happened to Michael McElhattan, who owns DeLorean Midwest, an auto restoration company in Illinois that specializes in DeLoreans, and his social media partner Kevin Thomas. The car featured in the “Back to the Future” franchise is a DeLorean DMC-12, manufactured for just three years from 1981-1983. With its gullwing doors and brushed stainless steel body, its spaceship-like appearance made the car ideal for the films, the directors have said.
Despite mechanical woes, the vehicles have since developed a cult following. And this one, a 1981 model that has spent the majority of its life in a barn, only had 977 miles on the odometer — a rarity.
After 17 years of working on DeLoreans, it’s been exciting to find a model they hadn’t heard of so close by, said McElhattan in a video on DeLorean NATION, the YouTube channel run by him and Thomas.
“It’s always cool to see another one come out of the woodwork that’s been lost to the community,” McElhattan said.


